hi i'm nigel haloth I'm gonna do you
mushrooms on toast cream mushrooms on
tours and first of all we're going to
put our pan on we need to put it on a
moderate heat so we're looking at
looking at about number nine okay so our
pans on take the lid off and we've got
cultivated mushrooms there we've got
some King oyster we've got some shiitake
we've got some enoki and we've actually
got some wild sent George mushrooms in
there okay ingredients to go with the
mushrooms we've got some chopped chives
we've got some lovage we've got some
chopped parsley chervil mixed leaves and
we've also got a little bit of cream
white wine and some butter okay garlic
and shallots and we're going to thicken
the mushroom soy sauce with a little bit
of potato starch okay so to start the
dish we're going to pop in another
butter and I'll just increase the
temperature now and while I'm waiting
for that just to get to the right
temperature I'm going to cut through a
few of the mushrooms leave the mushrooms
nice and chunky because don't forget the
mushrooms will shrink as they cook so
leave them nice and chunky and you can
see those big King oyster mushrooms
they're very much like a set like a
cultivated set okay little nanaki's okay
so beautiful arrangements of mushrooms
I'm gonna put the shallots in first so
I've sliced some shallots pop those in
fist little touch of garlic and then pop
our mushrooms in
give them a stare and a little bit of
seasoning washer and pop the lid on
leave the lid on for about 30 seconds
and then we're going to pop some white
wine in once the mushrooms have started
to start to break down okay there we go
such a white wine that creates steam
really shocks the mushrooms and then
they start to really cook okay we're
going to leave the mushrooms there for
about another 30 seconds so if you don't
want to over cook the mushrooms okay so
all this is very very quick I've got a
colander and a ball here so what I'm
gonna do is take the mushrooms out and
pour the juices back in put some cream
in and then thicken the cream okay
so you can see the steam there okay
pouring mushrooms okay we're going to
put our juices into the pan and then pop
a small amount of cream in there and
bring that back up to the boil then
we're going to need a small whisk and
here we've got our potato starch just
mixed a little bit of white wine with
our potato starch just to make sure that
it's you want sort of that texture and
the cream sauce is starting to to boil
when I turn it up a little bit more
because I want that to really boil
vigorously now and we need to reduce it
by a third at this stage while we're
waiting for that to reduce down what we
can do is we can get our salads that
we're going to garnish with and we've
got mainly watercress and a few mixed
leaves there they were going to pop onto
the top okay
and a little bit of olive oil on to
those thanks oh and then they're ready
for when our mushrooms are going to be
there don't forget I've got my toast in
the oven so I mustn't forget that and
now we're just whisked it you know
I say it's a starch and that should be
quite thick now as you can see okay and
then add our mushrooms back in add the
juices back in there and then mix the
mushrooms will release the juices and
drop the sauce back down okay and I'm
just gonna add a little bit more a
little bit more cream into that and all
I need to do now is add my herbs and
season up so we're gonna season up a
little bit of salt pepper okay I've got
my chopped chives plenty of chopped
chives parsley I'm some lovely chervil
in there and fold that in gender now the
important bit is now I've got to try one
of the mushrooms just check this season
beautiful huh even if it's nice for
myself
bring they'll link to from turn off my
induction hob and we're ready to go
so I'll nip in and get my tools
there we go and the nice little and a
nice little tip for you a little bit of
olive oil there's some seasoning on your
toast before you put your mushrooms on
so just drizzle the olive oil over that
makes it really lush to eat salt and it
just heightens the flavor of the whole
dish okay you can see some lovely chunky
mushrooms oh gosh you know the simplest
things are always the best but I would
say I wouldn't know and I think that's a
nice portion there and then watercress
goes really well with mushrooms the iron
in the in the watercress blends really
well with it
with any fungi so pop that on there and
a few little red leaves there to go in I
can get that last little one and there's
our mushrooms on toast
you